---
header-id: targeting-liferay-editions-and-versions
---

# Targeting Liferay Editions and Versions and Versioning your App

[TOC levels=1-4]

There are multiple versions of Liferay and multiple editions (e.g., community
and enterprise) for each version. You must decide the versions and editions to
build your app on. And lastly, you must decide how to version your app. This
tutorial covers these topics. 

## Determining Editions and Versions of Liferay to Target

Of course, targeting the widest possible range of Liferay editions and versions
in an app typically draws larger audiences to the app. And there may be certain
features in these editions and versions that you want to take advantage of. In
your app's plugin
[packaging properties](/how-to-publish/-/knowledge_base/publish/preparing-your-app),
specify packaging directives to indicate the editions the app supports and the
version that the app supports. To ensure the widest audience for your app, make
your app compatible with both Liferay Digital Experience Platform (DXP) and
Liferay Portal Community Edition (CE). 

You can prepare a set of app files (including its
`liferay-plugin-package.properties` file) for each version of Liferay you want
to support. When uploading your app, you can specify which versions of Liferay
your app is compatible with and you can appropriately upload the sets of app
files that are designed for those different versions. The next article in this
guide explains how to go about
[specifying packaging directives](/how-to-publish/-/knowledge_base/publish/preparing-your-app). 

Note that apps on Liferay Marketplace must be designed for Liferay Portal 6.1
GA3 or later. That doesn't mean they can't work with prior versions. However,
only Liferay Portal 6.1 GA3 and later versions support installing apps directly
from Marketplace and provide safeguards against malicious apps. If you want to
use an app with an earlier version of @product@, make sure that version provides
the dependencies your app needs. 

Lastly, you should determine a versioning scheme for your app. How will you
refer to the first version of your app, the second version, and so on. 

## Decide on a Versioning Scheme

A version of an app represents the functionality of the app at a given point in
time. When you first create an app, you give it an initial version (e.g.,
`1.0`). On updating the app, you increment its version (e.g., from `1.0` to
`1.1`), and you upload new files representing that version of the app. In some
cases, you specify additional qualifiers in order to convey a special meaning.
For example, you may declare that the version of your app is always in x.y.z
format (where you've clearly defined the significance of x, y, and z). Liferay
versions and official Liferay app versions use this format.

In any case, you're free to assign your app's version designators any way you
like. We recommend that you stick to a well known and easily understandable
format, such as `1.0`, `1.1`, `1.2`, and so on. Although you may want to include
alphabetical characters (e.g., `1.0 Beta 2` or `6.3 Patch 123235-01`), we
discourage it, as such characters may confuse customers as to how your app's
versions relate to one another.

Keep in mind that the releases of Liferay with which your app works must be
specified using Liferay's versioning scheme, as explained in
[Understanding Liferay's Releases](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/understanding-liferays-releases).
See the later section *Specify App Packaging Directives* for details on
specifying the releases of Liferay for which your app is designed. 

Congratulations on coming up with a sound game plan for your app! The next
articles explain how to prepare apps for publishing. 
