---
header-id: creating-your-licensing-and-pricing-model
---

# Creating Your Licensing and Pricing Model

[TOC levels=1-4]

Carefully consider which licensing structure best meets your needs. Once your
app has been approved, these options, except for price updates, cannot be
changed. 

**Choose a license term:**

![Figure 1: Choosing license terms for Marketplace apps is easy.](../../../images/marketplace-configure-app-license.png)

Choosing *Perpetual* allows the app to continue running without expiration.
Choosing *Non-Perpetual* expires the app's license one year from the purchase
date. Perpetual License also allows you to offer Support Services, which the
customer must renew annually to maintain access to app updates and support. If
you choose not to offer Support Services with a Perpetual License, customers
will be provided with app updates only, whenever updates are available. 

Importantly, you can't change your app's license terms (perpetual or
non-perpetual) once the app is approved. In order to release an approved app
under a different license term you must submit another app under a new name
(title). So make sure you think through the license term that makes the most
sense for your app. 

**Creating license options:**

![Figure 2: You can create multiple license options for your Marketplace apps.](../../../images/marketplace-create-license-types.png)

Creating license options allows you to design license bundles and to specify
discounts for customers who purchase more Liferay Instances for your app (a
Liferay Instance or Instance refers to a single installation of the Liferay
Portal). Also you can designate different pricing for Standard Licenses vs.
Developer Licenses. You must specify at least one license option, but no more
than 10 options per type. You'll price these options on the next page. 

You can add or remove bundles (quantities) of your app's license type even after
the app is approved. You must however, always honor any support agreements you
have with current customers that are using bundles you've removed.

**Paid support:** You can offer additional paid support services for your app.
If you select this option, customers can contact you with support requests and
are entitled to regular updates. 

Once an app that offers a support subscription offering is approved, you can't
remove that support subscription offering. You can however, add a support
subscription offering to an approved app. 

**Offer a trial:** You can offer a free 30-day trial of your app, restricted to
one Instance and 25 users. 

When you're finished selecting all the options for your license, proceed to the
next page to determine the app's pricing and availability.

**Pricing:**

![Figure 3: Liferay makes it easy to price your app's license types and specify their availability to countries around the world.](../../../images/marketplace-app-pricing.png) 

Based on your selections from the previous page, you'll have price fields for
each license option and for any support option you offered. 

When you have completed your app's pricing and availability, click *Next* to
advance to the app preview screen. 
