---
header-id: mentioning-users
---

# Mentioning Users

[TOC levels=1-4]

Have you ever wanted to include another user in a discussion on the Message
Boards? Have you ever wanted to give kudos to a colleague in content you're
writing? You can mention (notify and/or draw attention to) other users by 
entering the `@` character in front of each user's user name. 

When you mention a user, the user receives a site notification next to the
user's profile icon and an email, alerting the user with a link to the content.
You can mention users in a blog entry, a message boards post, or comments in any 
app that supports comments. A mention also links to the user's home page, so 
readers can find out more about that user. 

![Figure 1: As you enter a user name after the `@` character, links to users that match the text you enter are displayed. Select the user you want to mention and publish your content.](../../../../images/mentions-at-mention-menu.png)

A selector appears after entering the `@` character, listing users that match 
the name you're entering. In the selector, users are represented by their 
profile picture, name, and user name. Click the user you want to mention and 
finish editing your content. 

On publishing the content, mentioned users receive a notification and an email 
informing them that they've been mentioned. The notification and email indicate 
the author's name and content type, and contain links to the content. You can 
access your notifications by selecting *Notifications* from your user menu. 

![Figure 2: Your notifications are accessible from your user menu and appear in a list.](../../../../images/mentions-notification-list.png)

Mentions are enabled by the Mentions app, which is a part of the Collaboration 
Suite. By default, the Mentions app is enabled globally. However, you can 
enable/disable it globally or per site. For a site to use Mentions, it must be 
enabled for the site's Virtual Instance. 

To access the global Mentions settings for your Virtual Instance, first open the 
*Menu* 
(![Menu](../../../../images/icon-menu.png)) and navigate to *Control Panel* &rarr; 
*Configuration* &rarr; *Instance Settings*. Then click *Community Tools* and 
select *Mentions* under *VIRTUAL INSTANCE SCOPE*. By default, all users are 
allowed to mention fellow site members and friends. To fine tune these options, 
select *Define Mentions Capability for Users* and specify the settings you want. 

![Figure 3: You can enable or disable the Mentions feature for all of the Virtual Instance's sites.](../../../../images/mentions-global-instance-setting.png)

For Mentions to be available for a site, the app must be enabled for that site's 
Virtual Instance. Site administrators can enable or disable Mentions for a site. 
A site's Mentions app configuration is accessible from within the *Menu* 
(![Menu](../../../../images/icon-menu.png)). Once in the menu, navigate to 
*[Site Name]* &rarr; *Configuration* &rarr; *Settings*. In the *Social* tab, 
expand the *Mentions* section. Enable or disable mentions via the toggle labeled 
*Allow Users to Mention Other Users*. 

![Figure 4: Mentions can also be enabled or disabled per site.](../../../../images/mentions-site-setting.png)
